*fracs of 1

char auto dims for scaled canvas
*atom brak
tabbing to abs pos
*predender def inspect
*saveable and loadable def text chunks
*def embed def
*fracs of 1-7 not full 4 bit symbol
*creat/edit presave page
finish migrating geom chars
*shortcut for x/y fractions
*tan brak
exe() bigger dots
braks inside of conditionals dont work
modify pi (like zhong, "3x diam")
if brak not creating proper defmap, might need to prerender nad click off to sub def map of the brak (this will also apply to while, etc all braks based on the 2 arg if brak structure)
sd,avg,etc.. icon on def not correct (redering brak name as text word)

array def that includes properties and elements (calling properties like array elements but properties not be countable items.. maybe a separater structure for calling and listing properties.. but this seems unecesarry.. this is not actually a programming markup language.. we dont need to actually allow a procedural call to list properties because we can assume the user knows the properties..
lerning the properties is equivalant to learning the word or concept.. a learning program could be written to do thgis.. but its something on top of the language itself.. not part of ther language.. so perhaps someone writes a program where words are arrays, each conmtaining 2 elements which are arrays, an array of properties and an array of elements.. as a leaning tool.. not as part of the language itself..., the lnaguage only needs to be able to call up a property value... not loop through properties)

bugs:
	tref:xxx shows the tref line at end.. maybe uref does too

*vertical spacer

dynamic char svg loading (option to not load svg on char load, then load svg only when char render is requested)

def text links to def
reduce gap between num and scinote
reduce gap between some hex nums (eg 52 , 4e)
reduce gap between some hex nums and radix eg(b.d)

def edit by name page (def maintence/editor ui)
click on presave not working in inpection def editor**works for first levelpresave.. maybe depeper doesnt work
Special def for presave (shows breadown clickable render of preseave text{above the def svg/text}
particle symbols(modified variable symbol)


LAZY precision on particle masses (used numbers with only 3 decimal digits precision to produce number with 5 digits hex precision)

inspect edit save image

math ops page (arb_math.php)
	*rad to hex rad
	scinote to dec num
	arb hex mult
	arb hex div
	arb hex rad div
	arb hex rad mult
	Find scales for Mega,Giga,Peta,micro,nano, etc that make sense for force, speed, accel, etc
	more unit conversions
		*mass g,kg,ton,...
		*length m,km,...
		*time s, hour,day,year,...
		charge, weight, force, speed, accel, etc...


procedual needed
   *count
   *sum
   *avg
   procedural ariel ref notation(ariel means "array eleement") 
   SD brak
   foreach brak
   new symbols for "break" and "continue" and "goto+label"
   new symbols for butwise ops(extension of logical boolean ops obviously)


geom
  rotate
  perimiter
  area/volume
  start with cartesian, then add circular/spherical
 			defined by corners and angles or angles per radian
 	symbol for right angle (defined in radians and as quarter rev etc..)

atom ambiguity (all isotopes of ionization state) atom(3 0 1)
  #x atom "0 isotope" y ion  	(specific isotope and ion)
  too simmilar to
  #x atom false(neg electron) y ion 	(all isotopes of spoecific ionization) atom(3 . -1)

atom braks dont link to def






-char/graphics work
arrays
procedural
circumference


-def work
finish array ops/element defs (for the parts already added)


-manual work
keep adding to it


char database management tools
backup/restore !!!do this first and do it carefuly haha ;)
move/copy folder

-ultra low priority(maybe do later when the important core stuff is done)
chromodynamics generator (symbols of quarks and gluons with charge)
indentation based rendering groups? (currently presaves allow this, maybe better leave that way so each piece can be reused.. maybe just add better DB and sorting for presaves)
migate everyuthing to mysql? 
  (
		I think I prefer file based... 
		but.. OOOOOOHHHH how mysql would simplify so much.. 
		i started dwith files for svg file management and editing convinience
		and this still has its merits.. i can work locally on svg files and not seen to upload themn to update the db.. just edit the svg file
		so im torn.. i suppose in the end.. database, with an "auto update db from files" tool
	)

add ability to have if do and else do on one condition (cann just manually make images for now, not high priority)